# Thoughts on Microstates
## The Partition Function
The Partition Function creates the number N that you need to divide each state of your system by so that your probability sums up to 1. This is why it always equals 14 for the Ce3+ with no splitting, because that simulation always has 14 possible states the electron is equally likely to be in, wheres the other two simulations SOC and SOC + CFS simulations start at 6 and 4 respectivly since that is how many ground states they have. As energy increases the amount of states the particle can be in increase so both functions increase. SOC + CFS increases faster because it has a few energy states at a lower energy than all of SOC's high energy states so it gains access to it's second lowesst energy states faster. Eventually though as energy aproches infinity all the simulations will approch a Z of 14 since each state will be just as likely for the electron to be in.
## The Internal Energy
The most easy thing to notice is that the simulation without splitting has no internal energy. This is because it cannot move it's electron to a higher energy state. This means that the cesium cannot store energy at all. For the other two SOC + CFS rises faster and higher than SOC alone. This is for two reasons. First SOC + CFS can just hold more energy than SOC simply because if you average out the energy of each simulation you get a bigger number. The second reason is it gets access to more energy states faster since there is such a large gap between the low and high energy gap for SOC takes alot of energy to cross. SOC + CFS takes less energy to cross its energy gaps.
## The Free Energy
The free energy for the simulation without splitting is linear downward. This makes sense as Z is not dependant on temperature for the simulation without splitting. The reason it slopes downward is because G = H - ST so as T increases the negitive entropy componet becomes even more negative. The reason G decreases slower at the begining is because Z is so much smaller since there is less access to the higher energy states.

## Entropy
At first glance it might make no sence why the simulation with no splitting is the one with the highest entropy, but entropy is directly proportional to the number of states a system can be in. Since the simulation without splitting has access to all its states at the begining it has the highest entropy. The SOC simulation has the second highest entropy since it starts with access to more states for the electron to be in, but SOC + CFS quickly begins to catch up since it gains access to many of it's states at a lower energy than SOC does. At higher energy gap becomes less relevent so SOC and SOC + CFS rise at similar rates.